0: sign in
1: RYM
2: new music
3: genres
4: charts
5: lists
6: ADVERTISEMENT
7: Welcome to Rate Your Music
8: RYM is one of the largest music databases and communities online, which you can use in endless ways to discover new music. Learn about some of the ways you can use RYM for music discovery.
9: 1,928,690 Artists
10: 7,378,327 Releases
11: 27,481,553 Songs
12: 149,100 Labels
13: 173,582,366 Ratings
14: 3,787,467 Reviews
15: 928,567 Lists
16: [+all reviews]
17: Featured reviews
18: 2010s Album Anniversary
19: Review
20: 3.79 from 31,723 ratings
21: Genres
22: Blackgaze, Post-Metal
23: Post-Rock, Screamo
24: Descriptors
25: passionate, melancholic, atmospheric, warm, male vocalist, dense, existential, ethereal, lonely, melodic, alienation, longing, poetic, summer, heavy, introspective, sentimental, bittersweet, lush, bright, epic, noisy, anxious, triumphant, harsh vocals, envy, sombre, hazy, progressive, family, suburban, depressive, daytime, mental health, blast beats, regret, shrieking, energetic, sampling
26: Sunbather (2013)
27: Deafheaven
28: Review by Greiochain
29: A milestone within the genre that has still not lost any relevance - 95%
30: I do not think anyone would disagree with me if I said that the genre of blackgaze would not be nearly as popular as it is without Sunbather. The genre would definitely still exist, other larger bands like Alcest had been doing it for more than a decade before Deafheaven even existed, but it would be with this album that the genre would be pushed to a wider audience. The minimalistic and controversially pink album cover has definitely grown to be one of the most recognizable covers in metal history, even to non-metalheads, and for good reason. While Sunbather is still a black metal album at its core, it presents the genre in a way that is a lot more palatable for a wider audience, blending in elements of shoegaze and soft post-rock to create something truly enigmatic within the scene.
31: 
32: The record consists of four huge “main” tracks, with shorter, transitionary tracks between each of them. I do not want to call these interludes, as each of them adds something of their own to the flow and feel of the album, not just being songs purely existing to add space between the larger compositions. They are almost always calmer than the tracks they lay between, with the exception of ‘Please Remember’ that has a noise section that lasts a couple of minutes around the start of the song, but the rest of it, like the others consists of cleaner, softer, more quiet music, here in the form of an acoustic guitar. ‘Windows’ has a bigger focus on droning ambience, while ‘Irresistible’ leans more into clean guitars and piano. These three tracks are hard to lump in with the rest of the album, since they do not really have anything that connects them to each other too much, as they are pretty unique within the record’s entirety, so I wanted to talk about them now, so I can get on with the meat of the album.
33: 
34: The remaining four tracks is definitely the main attraction, and what you listen to this album for. Each of them are large compositions, only one being less than ten minutes in length, and that only barely. They consist of lengthy droning tremolo-picked riffs that lean more into the atmospheric side of black metal, but with a brighter and more lush sound than what you would expect from black metal. They still carry the somber melancholy of the genre, and do so especially well, as the shoegaze elements act as a catalyst for the sorrow, as the brighter aspect to them adds a sort of optimism to the music. This creates a contrast and widens the gap between the two emotions, making each of them hit harder. The more positive emotions lift you up, only for you to plummet deeper into despair once this brighter atmosphere starts cracking, and the melancholy starts leaking through. It stretches out its hand to keep you from falling, only to let go of you once you think you are safe.
35: 
36: While the shoegaze elements are also very present in the black metal aspect of the music, there are also a lot of sections that consist solely of post-rock, usually sprinkled inside the songs to break up the longer, droning sections. These work very well, and the way they are implemented feels very natural, and does not break up the flow of the songs at all, which is incredibly important when creating long songs such as this.
37: 
38: On my first listen, the track that stood out to me the most was definitely the 14 minute behemoth ‘Vertigo’, as it has the best and most grand guitarwork on the entire album. However, one track was always also up there, that being ‘Dream House’, but it would not be until I saw the band play that song live that it would finally be elevated above ‘Vertigo’. I saw Deafheaven in a very small venue, we are talking the maximum capacity to be around a hundred or so, including the bands and crew, so closer to like 80 if we do not count these. ‘Dream House’ is already a very emotional song, and is definitely the track on here that evokes these emotions the best, but just listening to the studio version does not at all compare to standing at the very front, essentially at eye level with the band, with the entire crowd screaming “I want to dream”. That experience was more than enough for ‘Dream House’ to easily rise to the very top of the album.
39: 
40: While Sunbather is definitely Deafheaven’s most popular and recognizable album, I definitely think that they have managed surpass it with Lonely People with Power, released earlier this year, and although that album might soon steal this record’s spot as their most well regarded, Sunbather still holds up remarkably well as one of the best blackgaze albums of all time even now, 12 years later.
41: 
42: Highlight tracks: Dream House, Vertigo, Sunbather
43: Expand review
44: RIP Indio Solari
45: Review
46: 4.00 from 4,948 ratings
47: Genres
48: Post-Punk
49: New Wave, Blues Rock, Gothic Rock, Hard Rock
50: Descriptors
51: dark, male vocalist, anxious, cryptic, drugs, nocturnal, political, conscious, cold, urban, rebellious, socialism, apocalyptic, sombre, anthemic, satirical, revolution, cocaine, nightlife, violence, war, poetic, abstract, sexual, ominous, atmospheric
52: Oktubre (1986)
53: Patricio Rey y Sus Redonditos de Ricota
54: Review by cavalierjan19
55: There’s often a lot of talk about how certain bands are underrated, overlooked, deserve more praise and so on. Rightfuly so. But on the other hand there are numerous bands which fortunately get the praise they deserve. Patricio Rey y sus Redonditos de Ricota (or simply Los Redondos for brevity’s sake) is one of those bands, especially in their native Argentina.
56: 
57: To a large extent this record is very Argentinian (especially lyrically) and can be best appreciated by those who understand all of the social, cultural and political context. Nonetheless even without that any serious enjoyer of rock music in general is missing out on a lot by not giving Oktubre (and the rest of this band’s discography in general) a chance.
58: 
59: The sound that is present here is quite an interesting and varied mix. It’s both post-punk and hard rock at its core, a bit like The Cult's Love or the sound presented by The Sisters of Mercy on some Floodland songs. At the same time there’s bluesier elements (listen to Semen-Up) and reggae inspired guitars in many tracks (another postpunk/new-wave band from Argentina that did the reggae/dub sound really well are Sumo- do not sleep on them!). All of this is tied together by very memorable guitar melodies crafted by guitarist Skay Bellinson. The main motiff from Motor Psico, the main riff of Preso en mi Ciudad or the solo from Fuegos de Octubre (so simple yet so memorable) are the finest examples of this man’s skill. Los Redondos also employ the saxophone in many songs with great success- some of the sax parts are a real cherry on top (if you enjoy those in the post-punk context- be sure to listen to my fellow countrymen Kult).
60: 
61: Oktubre is quite varied in sound and in composition. Ji Ji Ji does the quite-loud dynamic really well. Divina Tv-Fuehrer has a nice punky-bluesy business to its sound. Some other tracks give more space for the atmosphere to develop (Semen-Up, Canción para Naufragios). There’s a very good balance between different stylistics here. The same with the mood that is evoked by the band. Some tracks are rather dark, some more sorrowful and reflective (Motor Psico, Musica para Pastillas), some more energetic and rebellious.
62: 
63: One can’t also forget about the lyrical content. Vocalist Indio Solari has penned down some very memorables lines here. His lyrics have a distinct sense of humour, often quite ironic and bittersweet (f.e. Semen-Up- a commentary on drug addiction). Solari’s also very good at creating imagery (Musica para Pastillas) and making political and social observations. It’s quite easy to see where his sympathies lie given the album’s title and the very minimalistic, yet powerful lyrics of Fuegos de Octubre.
64: 
65: One of the best things to come from Argentina for sure.
66: Expand review
67: 1990s Album Anniversary
68: Review
69: 3.82 from 6,175 ratings
70: Genres
71: Progressive Rock, Art Punk, Experimental Rock, Zolo
72: Neo-Psychedelia, Progressive Pop, Avant-Prog, Zolo, Alternative Rock
73: Descriptors
74: manic, dense, complex, uncommon time signatures, chaotic, quirky, energetic, playful, epic, surreal, progressive, technical, eclectic, male vocalist, melodic, avant-garde, cryptic, anxious, psychedelic, humorous, abstract, maximalist, Wall of Sound, theatrical, noisy, animals, existential, bright, polyphonic, angular, polyrhythm, triumphant, antireligious, female vocalist, poetic, stream of consciousness, passionate, vocal group, dissonant, dark humor, suspenseful
75: Sing to God (1996)
76: Cardiacs
77: Review by vehemently
78: Cardiacs is an uncompromising group. From the beginning, they seemed hellbent on alienating people. They didn't dress like drunken clowns by the time Sing to God came out, but that didn't stop them from being creepy in new ways. But even more than their aesthetics, it's their music that upsets people probably the most. For every elated fan, there's at least one disgusted hater. I believe this is due in no small part to how they sound. Sure, their signature atonal composition, punctuated by rapidly shifting odd rhythms aren't exactly approachable. But there is a reason Tim Smith (Rest in Peace) considered his group to be pop. Despite the complexity of their harmonic, melodic, and rhythmic structures, these songs are just as often gratifying and exciting in the way you would want from a radio hit. There is a universe where Cardiacs were a progressive pop juggernaut. But instead, all that is performed in a carnivalistic and aggressive blitz to the senses. Saxophones, electric organs, Smith's zany vocals, these complicate the music to your ears. Throughout their history, their production has been abrasive and dense, almost impenetrable in conjunction with their music.
79: 
