sign in
RYM
new music
genres
charts
lists
ADVERTISEMENT
Welcome to Rate Your Music
RYM is one of the largest music databases and communities online, which you can use in endless ways to discover new music. Learn about some of the ways you can use RYM for music discovery.
1,928,690 Artists
7,378,327 Releases
27,481,553 Songs
149,100 Labels
173,582,366 Ratings
3,787,467 Reviews
928,567 Lists
[+all reviews]
Featured reviews
2010s Album Anniversary
Review
3.79 from 31,723 ratings
Genres
Blackgaze, Post-Metal
Post-Rock, Screamo
Descriptors
passionate, melancholic, atmospheric, warm, male vocalist, dense, existential, ethereal, lonely, melodic, alienation, longing, poetic, summer, heavy, introspective, sentimental, bittersweet, lush, bright, epic, noisy, anxious, triumphant, harsh vocals, envy, sombre, hazy, progressive, family, suburban, depressive, daytime, mental health, blast beats, regret, shrieking, energetic, sampling
Sunbather (2013)
Deafheaven
Review by Greiochain
A milestone within the genre that has still not lost any relevance - 95%
I do not think anyone would disagree with me if I said that the genre of blackgaze would not be nearly as popular as it is without Sunbather. The genre would definitely still exist, other larger bands like Alcest had been doing it for more than a decade before Deafheaven even existed, but it would be with this album that the genre would be pushed to a wider audience. The minimalistic and controversially pink album cover has definitely grown to be one of the most recognizable covers in metal history, even to non-metalheads, and for good reason. While Sunbather is still a black metal album at its core, it presents the genre in a way that is a lot more palatable for a wider audience, blending in elements of shoegaze and soft post-rock to create something truly enigmatic within the scene.

The record consists of four huge “main” tracks, with shorter, transitionary tracks between each of them. I do not want to call these interludes, as each of them adds something of their own to the flow and feel of the album, not just being songs purely existing to add space between the larger compositions. They are almost always calmer than the tracks they lay between, with the exception of ‘Please Remember’ that has a noise section that lasts a couple of minutes around the start of the song, but the rest of it, like the others consists of cleaner, softer, more quiet music, here in the form of an acoustic guitar. ‘Windows’ has a bigger focus on droning ambience, while ‘Irresistible’ leans more into clean guitars and piano. These three tracks are hard to lump in with the rest of the album, since they do not really have anything that connects them to each other too much, as they are pretty unique within the record’s entirety, so I wanted to talk about them now, so I can get on with the meat of the album.

The remaining four tracks is definitely the main attraction, and what you listen to this album for. Each of them are large compositions, only one being less than ten minutes in length, and that only barely. They consist of lengthy droning tremolo-picked riffs that lean more into the atmospheric side of black metal, but with a brighter and more lush sound than what you would expect from black metal. They still carry the somber melancholy of the genre, and do so especially well, as the shoegaze elements act as a catalyst for the sorrow, as the brighter aspect to them adds a sort of optimism to the music. This creates a contrast and widens the gap between the two emotions, making each of them hit harder. The more positive emotions lift you up, only for you to plummet deeper into despair once this brighter atmosphere starts cracking, and the melancholy starts leaking through. It stretches out its hand to keep you from falling, only to let go of you once you think you are safe.

While the shoegaze elements are also very present in the black metal aspect of the music, there are also a lot of sections that consist solely of post-rock, usually sprinkled inside the songs to break up the longer, droning sections. These work very well, and the way they are implemented feels very natural, and does not break up the flow of the songs at all, which is incredibly important when creating long songs such as this.

On my first listen, the track that stood out to me the most was definitely the 14 minute behemoth ‘Vertigo’, as it has the best and most grand guitarwork on the entire album. However, one track was always also up there, that being ‘Dream House’, but it would not be until I saw the band play that song live that it would finally be elevated above ‘Vertigo’. I saw Deafheaven in a very small venue, we are talking the maximum capacity to be around a hundred or so, including the bands and crew, so closer to like 80 if we do not count these. ‘Dream House’ is already a very emotional song, and is definitely the track on here that evokes these emotions the best, but just listening to the studio version does not at all compare to standing at the very front, essentially at eye level with the band, with the entire crowd screaming “I want to dream”. That experience was more than enough for ‘Dream House’ to easily rise to the very top of the album.

While Sunbather is definitely Deafheaven’s most popular and recognizable album, I definitely think that they have managed surpass it with Lonely People with Power, released earlier this year, and although that album might soon steal this record’s spot as their most well regarded, Sunbather still holds up remarkably well as one of the best blackgaze albums of all time even now, 12 years later.

Highlight tracks: Dream House, Vertigo, Sunbather
Expand review
RIP Indio Solari
Review
4.00 from 4,948 ratings
Genres
Post-Punk
New Wave, Blues Rock, Gothic Rock, Hard Rock
Descriptors
dark, male vocalist, anxious, cryptic, drugs, nocturnal, political, conscious, cold, urban, rebellious, socialism, apocalyptic, sombre, anthemic, satirical, revolution, cocaine, nightlife, violence, war, poetic, abstract, sexual, ominous, atmospheric
Oktubre (1986)
Patricio Rey y Sus Redonditos de Ricota
Review by cavalierjan19
There’s often a lot of talk about how certain bands are underrated, overlooked, deserve more praise and so on. Rightfuly so. But on the other hand there are numerous bands which fortunately get the praise they deserve. Patricio Rey y sus Redonditos de Ricota (or simply Los Redondos for brevity’s sake) is one of those bands, especially in their native Argentina.

To a large extent this record is very Argentinian (especially lyrically) and can be best appreciated by those who understand all of the social, cultural and political context. Nonetheless even without that any serious enjoyer of rock music in general is missing out on a lot by not giving Oktubre (and the rest of this band’s discography in general) a chance.

The sound that is present here is quite an interesting and varied mix. It’s both post-punk and hard rock at its core, a bit like The Cult's Love or the sound presented by The Sisters of Mercy on some Floodland songs. At the same time there’s bluesier elements (listen to Semen-Up) and reggae inspired guitars in many tracks (another postpunk/new-wave band from Argentina that did the reggae/dub sound really well are Sumo- do not sleep on them!). All of this is tied together by very memorable guitar melodies crafted by guitarist Skay Bellinson. The main motiff from Motor Psico, the main riff of Preso en mi Ciudad or the solo from Fuegos de Octubre (so simple yet so memorable) are the finest examples of this man’s skill. Los Redondos also employ the saxophone in many songs with great success- some of the sax parts are a real cherry on top (if you enjoy those in the post-punk context- be sure to listen to my fellow countrymen Kult).

Oktubre is quite varied in sound and in composition. Ji Ji Ji does the quite-loud dynamic really well. Divina Tv-Fuehrer has a nice punky-bluesy business to its sound. Some other tracks give more space for the atmosphere to develop (Semen-Up, Canción para Naufragios). There’s a very good balance between different stylistics here. The same with the mood that is evoked by the band. Some tracks are rather dark, some more sorrowful and reflective (Motor Psico, Musica para Pastillas), some more energetic and rebellious.

One can’t also forget about the lyrical content. Vocalist Indio Solari has penned down some very memorables lines here. His lyrics have a distinct sense of humour, often quite ironic and bittersweet (f.e. Semen-Up- a commentary on drug addiction). Solari’s also very good at creating imagery (Musica para Pastillas) and making political and social observations. It’s quite easy to see where his sympathies lie given the album’s title and the very minimalistic, yet powerful lyrics of Fuegos de Octubre.

One of the best things to come from Argentina for sure.
Expand review
1990s Album Anniversary
Review
3.82 from 6,175 ratings
Genres
Progressive Rock, Art Punk, Experimental Rock, Zolo
Neo-Psychedelia, Progressive Pop, Avant-Prog, Zolo, Alternative Rock
Descriptors
manic, dense, complex, uncommon time signatures, chaotic, quirky, energetic, playful, epic, surreal, progressive, technical, eclectic, male vocalist, melodic, avant-garde, cryptic, anxious, psychedelic, humorous, abstract, maximalist, Wall of Sound, theatrical, noisy, animals, existential, bright, polyphonic, angular, polyrhythm, triumphant, antireligious, female vocalist, poetic, stream of consciousness, passionate, vocal group, dissonant, dark humor, suspenseful
Sing to God (1996)
Cardiacs
Review by vehemently
Cardiacs is an uncompromising group. From the beginning, they seemed hellbent on alienating people. They didn't dress like drunken clowns by the time Sing to God came out, but that didn't stop them from being creepy in new ways. But even more than their aesthetics, it's their music that upsets people probably the most. For every elated fan, there's at least one disgusted hater. I believe this is due in no small part to how they sound. Sure, their signature atonal composition, punctuated by rapidly shifting odd rhythms aren't exactly approachable. But there is a reason Tim Smith (Rest in Peace) considered his group to be pop. Despite the complexity of their harmonic, melodic, and rhythmic structures, these songs are just as often gratifying and exciting in the way you would want from a radio hit. There is a universe where Cardiacs were a progressive pop juggernaut. But instead, all that is performed in a carnivalistic and aggressive blitz to the senses. Saxophones, electric organs, Smith's zany vocals, these complicate the music to your ears. Throughout their history, their production has been abrasive and dense, almost impenetrable in conjunction with their music.

This is no doubt true of Sing to God. While their releases of the 1980s were characterized by an erratic post-punk flavor, the 1990s saw Cardiacs embrace a grander and more rollicking sound, but it's not just the typical thrash of hard rock. The atonal melodic runs, the jerky rhythms, and the organs and saxophones and quirky shouts are still here, but now there's even more to put you off. The guitars are louder, more distorted, bigger. There are these constant waves of sparkling noises. The hallmark sound of Sing to God is a warbling cacophony. The melodies almost always have this intense phasing or tremolo effect over them. That, or there's a sharply pitch-shifted chorus under. Hell, a lot of the time it's both. It's pretty immediately off-putting. Some people are gonna love it, but a lot of people are going to just immediately stop listening.

Which is a shame, because underneath all that, Sing to God is full of beauty and energy. Listen closely, and it's hard to deny that Tim Smith was some kind of genius. The way these chord progressions move in and out of themselves, the way the melodies never go quite where you expect them to, it's often stunning. There is a way tension manages to transform rather than build throughout some of these songs that is profound. Even out of that, too, there are just songs on here that simply whip. There's pop jams, punkish anthems, spastic rhapsodies, cataclysmic odes. There are songs here that make me want to jump out of my seat screaming, and not in fear. I think, if you peel away all that unease, there is a song for most people somewhere on this album. There is real beauty here. But it takes listening past or even growing appreciation for the twinkling and the warbling to find it. And that's going to be too big an ask for most people. It's too big for me, sometimes. But I'll be damned if Sing to God doesn't shine bright, too.
Expand review
2010s Album Anniversary
Review
3.72 from 21,362 ratings
Genres
Alternative R&B, Neo-Soul
Trap Soul, Neo-Soul, Psychedelic Soul
Descriptors
introspective, love, sexual, breakup, bittersweet, female vocalist, sensual, mellow, romantic, rhythmic, lush, lonely, passionate, soothing, playful, anxious, melancholic, melodic, warm, existential, poetic, longing, concept album, insecure, smooth, ageing, self-hatred, infidelity, nocturnal, womanhood, sentimental, envy, spring, bassy, self-love, time, secrets, stream of consciousness
Ctrl (2017)
SZA
Review by whosonsecond
So much of R&B seeks to stick to tradition. The 2010s rise of "alt-R&B" with albums like "The ArchAndroid," "House of Balloons," and "Channel Orange" took the genre in a much more futuristic direction, talking about the downfalls of modern society as technology grows steadily around us. These are personal stories too, tales of unwillingness to break out of certain harmful patterns, or sometimes great change. For better or worse, a lot of those albums are so rooted in that time, whereas something like SZA's "Ctrl" takes a similar formula from those albums and keeps it sounding fresh even going into the 2020s.

On "Ctrl," SZA has such a fascinating persona. The title of the album is a sort of paradox: there are some moments of complete confidence and others of cluelessness. This especially applies to romance, a process that seems to eventually tire her out by the end of the album and ask herself what she truly wants in her life. The first track "Supermodel" and the last track "20 Something" have a similar guitar pattern and format, perhaps suggesting the album is a loop that SZA can't escape. Your 20s are such a difficult time, as I am coming to realize myself. You have all this freedom to do whatever you want and go wherever you want, but it also makes you feel overly lost and hopeless at times. So do you really have control?

The second fascinating thing about the album title is the abbreviation "Ctrl," as you would find on a computer keyboard. There's a huge comparison here to "Channel Orange," referencing television (technology) and even fitting it in multiple interludes. (Frank would touch on this topic again on "Blonde" with tracks like "Facebook Story" and "Close to You.") This time, SZA is hinting that her technology is influencing this seeming lack of control. Again, on the Internet, the possibilities seem endless, but it changes people's behaviors. People are less genuine and honest, hidden behind the safety of a screen. SZA doesn't reference much technology in the lyrics or sound, but she does call out her exes for being disingenuous multiple times. She grows mistrust of her peers and only has herself and her mother to rely on for guidance, something both sad and hopeful. SZA's lack of self-confidence is reinforced by the technology around her constantly; even with all the possibilities it brings, does she really have control?

The album fits all these ideas together seamlessly, trying a bunch of different styles that SZA handles with such ease. Her voice is beautiful, her melodies constantly move up and down to represent her instability. The lyrics are full of personality and even some fun humor. Verses like her last one on "Doves in the Wind" are hilarious and a bit over-the-top but in the best way. Hearing her energy in these moments makes you feel like the coolest person in the room, but a minute later she brings you right back down in your feels. The production is lush and really detailed, especially the guitar lines that are such a beautiful backing for her vocals. Also, the drum programming here is deceptively simple yet it works perfectly to match the tone of each song. The features seemed a bit out of place at first, but I've grown to love all of them for the different styles and substances they bring. My favorite would be Isaiah Rashad's feature on "Pretty Little Birds," with his raspy delivery and existential lines really fitting the darker tone of the second half of the album.

I don't think I've heard an album about technology that feels so human and organic. There's so much honesty and vulnerability from SZA and all of her guests, something that's increasingly difficult nowadays with social media playing as much of a role as the music itself.
It feels just as fresh as any R&B coming out right now, while taking elements from both early-2010s alt-R&B and even classic neo-soul. "Ctrl" has become a modern R&B staple, a rewarding, introspective project that will still be relevant years and years from now as long as technology plays a vital role in our lives. I can't wait to see what she does next.
Expand review
Exploring Doom Metal
Review
2.98 from 964 ratings
Genres
Doom Metal, Heavy Metal, Epic Doom Metal
Space Rock
Descriptors
heavy, dark, male vocalist, energetic, eclectic
Dactylis Glomerata (1998)
Candlemass
Review by Haestey
Into the Abstract Sun...
Departing from their typical epic doom sound, Dactylis Glomerata is the most overlooked album by Candlemass. While I came in with low expectations, I was pleasantly surprised at the new direction of the music here. The album is varied and experimental, with lots of attention to creating atmosphere and dynamics. Plenty of moments rely not on riffs but on bass, synths, and a mix of clean and dissonant guitars, to create parts that are meditative, mysterious, and ominous. Tracks like "Apathy" even show a willingness to expand outside metal, creating a song that is slow, but fully embraces the ambiance with the guitar acting secondary to the bass and synths. "Dusflow", the longest track, shows the attention to atmosphere played out in a more metal context. Even within that track, the guitars rely more on simple melodies and soloing, which feel almost secondary to the rest of the instrumentation.

Even though riffs are less prominent here, its still metal and they tried to expand on the guitar work. The guitars feel abstract at times, with less emphasis on clear melodies or riffs, but throwing in dissonance or odd rhythms. The production on the guitars is more downtuned, with some groovier riffs reminiscent of stoner metal on tracks like "Wiz". And despite experimenting, it's still a doom metal album. A track like "I Still See The Black" could have been any other Candlemass album - built on dramatic vocals and massive riffs, there are just some added dynamics with the synths.

The new vocalist Björn Flodkvist might not have the same talent and charisma as previous Candlemass vocalists, but has a level of drama and theatricality here you'd expect from an epic doom singer. Perhaps being less impressive works better here to highlight the experimental instrumentation and songwriting.

While it might not be their best work or essential listening, Dactylis Glomerata proved to me at least the band's capacity for quality control, especially where many 80s metal bands have failed in that regard to implement any interesting ideas or write anything dependable past their prime. The main difficulty I think this record faced is that it can feel as if it's just Leif Edling keeping this a Candlemass record. While that is partially true, I think Leif being their main songwriter and only consistent member, combined with the execution, is enough for me to consider it authentic Candlemass. With an incomplete lineup and riskier approach to their sound, perhaps their "bad album" can be considered an underrated gem of epic doom metal.

Coincidently, I think Dactylis Glomerata parallels with what My Dying Bride were doing on 34.788%... Complete, which also happened to be released in 1998. They were two more or less conservative bands that decided to take risks with their sound and aesthetics for once. While both albums were not that different from their other works in the grand scheme of things, I suspect they were eccentric enough for most fans to be relegated as the "worst album" made by each band. Which is unfortunate. In both cases, they provided a unique sort of spinoff to their classic works.
Expand review
2020s Album Anniversary
Review
3.83 from 56,770 ratings
Genres
Electropop, Electronic Dance Music, Dance-Pop
Bubblegum Bass, Electro House, Dance-Pop, Electroclash
Descriptors
party, introspective, female vocalist, hedonism, energetic, rhythmic, bittersweet, existential, boastful, repetitive, playful, urban, anxious, anthemic, love, self-hatred, futuristic, passionate, quirky, dense, melodic, mechanical, eclectic, longing, sensual, rebellious, manic, nocturnal, summer, alienation, fame, romantic, melancholic, insecure, drugs, cocaine, escapism, bouncy, ageing, envy, nightlife, entertainment industry, buzzy, friendship, sassy, womanhood, talk-singing, sad, bright, chaotic, sing-rapping, about music, individuality
Brat (2024)
Charli XCX
Review by akazeph
A victory lap for Charli
Underdog, underrated, and not quite a big pop star. This has been the prevailing narrative around Charli XCX for most of her career. Hell, it wasn’t until 2019 that she finally got to release her self-titled 3rd studio album, Charli, (after an EP that was misunderstood at first, two influential mixtapes and a fan-favorite shelved album), and embarked on her first-ever world tour as a headliner. Despite being a critical darling and being credited for inspiring the creation of ‘hyperpop’ (alongside SOPHIE, A. G. Cook, and the PC music crew), how I’m feeling now, one of her most widely beloved and critically acclaimed bodies of work, was by all means a commercial flop. It wasn’t until the release of CRASH that she scored the biggest first-week sales for an album in her career, expanded her audience to new levels, and subsequently scored a spot on the soundtrack of the biggest movie of the summer with Speed Drive (which also became her first Billboard Hot 100 entry since 2015). This is all to say that these past 5 years have been quite the wild ride, and it’s been surreal to watch her profile grow, be shamelessly copied, and finally be embraced by audiences and the wider music industry. People are finally starting to catch up to her.

So here we have Brat, a victory lap of sorts and a return to the pop music experimentation that made her such a beloved artist in the first place. The album was executively produced by Charli herself and frequent collaborator A.G. Cook, and features production work from Easyfun, George Daniel (from The 1975), Cirkut, Gesaffelstein, El Guincho, as well as Hudson Mohawke; the result is a raw, honest, hedonistic and introspective club album that takes inspiration from different styles of electronic dance music.

360, the second official single and album opener, is a braggy, and bratty pop-rap track where she explores the concept of being an “It” girl. The production is simple and bouncy, in a way that is very reminiscent of Charli’s earlier work with SOPHIE. I think this song is representative of what Charli was talking about when mentioning pop minimalism in a series of tweets last year. It's fun, it's catchy, and it's a great tone-setter for the album. The first single, Von dutch, is an anthemic electropop banger with a driving beat that is hard not to bob your head to. As the first single, it was a great showing of what a good portion of the album was gonna be like: hard club bangers with a big attitude.

More bops ensue with Talk talk, Club classics, and B2b. The former is a super catchy French house anthem, and probably the closest thing to a straightforward pop smash on this album. The latter two are repetitive, sweaty, popper-laced bangers. The breakdown with the distorted bass on Club classics reminds me of something SOPHIE would do, which I think is very intentional given that Charli shouts her out in the track alongside other album collaborators. I think that Brat in general is a love letter to her in many ways, and I’m so glad that Charli and the PC Music crew are keeping her name and legacy alive in their music as well as in their live shows.

Everything is romantic and 365 are two of the wildest songs on the album. The production and delivery of the first verse and chorus of Everything is romantic sort of reminds me of something M.I.A. would’ve done on Matangi. The second half of the song transitions into more of a repetitive drone; it’s fun, it’s entrancing, it’s atmospheric, and I love the themes, juxtapositions, and imagery in the lyrics. It’s one of my favorite songs on the album. 365 samples a sped-up version of the 360 instrumental, and as such carries on some of the same lyrical motifs; but then the song breaks down around the first minute and turns into this massive acid techno banger, switching and building up constantly until the end of the song. It’s freaky and apocalyptic, and It’s undoubtedly the final boss of Charli’s closing tracks. (so far!)

Aside from being chock full of hedonistic club bangers, a great portion of the tracks deal with themes of self-doubt, insecurities, and the relationship that she has with her peers and her music career. Girl, so confusing is an Uffie-inspired electroclash song that is about Charli’s insecurities about her relationship with an unnamed female artist. I think people are way too quick to call this a ‘diss track’ when it’s just not, and it’s more about Charli trying to understand how the other person might feel about her through her distorted lens (which is quite a relatable thing to do, to be honest); it doesn’t hurt that it’s a total bop either. Rewind is another mid-2000s electroclash banger that is about the personal insecurities brought on by her career as a pop musician, and wishing to ‘rewind’ back to a simpler time. Lyrically, it’s somewhat similar to 1999, but there are more specific meditations on her career as a pop star: “I used to never think about Billboard/but now I’ve started thinking again/Wondering ‘bout whether I think I deserve commercial success”. It’s a very interesting thought to have given that Brat directly follows what was arguably one of her most commercially successful eras yet. Given that Brat is a far less commercially appealing record, perhaps Charli’s goal isn’t commercial success for commercial success' sake, but to succeed without having to compromise her artistry, which CRASH arguably was. Anyway, this is a total bop, and it’s very interesting to see her roll back the curtains in this way.

Sonically, Sympathy is a knife is probably the closest song on this album to her old “hyperpop” sound. Lyrically, the song is about her being in her own head and comparing herself to a certain unnamed pop star (not particularly hard to figure out who it is about though). The chorus is massive, and this is probably one of her most vulnerable songs ever. Charli is a master of the angsty club anthem at this point (see: Anthems and Silver Cross).

There are a handful of ballads peppered throughout the tracklist that tastefully balance out the constant barrage of high-energy bops. I might say something stupid is a song that deals with themes of not belonging or fitting in, themes that are often present in Charli’s music such as in the fan-favorite Gone. It’s an early ballad that doesn’t overstay its welcome; however, its briefness does make it feel like an interlude rather than a fully formed idea. So I is a beautiful ballad about her relationship with the late SOPHIE and how Charli’s insecurities and deep awe of her caused a wedge to form between them. It interpolates SOPHIE’s It’s Okay To Cry, and it’s devastating to hear that she will never be able to get closure from that relationship. The way the song slowly builds up and then absolutely explodes on the outro is amazing, and you can hear Charli’s pain in her vocalizations. It’s a very powerful moment on the album.

I think about it all the time is a cute indietronica cut that is about her fear of possibly missing out on motherhood after seeing that one of her close friends and frequent songwriting collaborator Noonie Bao had become one. Given that the track precedes 365, a crazy ass song about doing hard drugs and partying 365 days a year, I think it’s safe to say that she’s made her choice for now. She’s too busy living that life.

There was a point in 2017 when not even Charli was sure if she would ever get to release another album, so to get to album 6 feels a bit surreal. If you were expecting another ‘hyperpop’ album, I’m afraid this isn’t it. This is a dance album full of sweaty club bangers, and she wants you to fucking dance (and maybe cry [just a little bit]). Given the material SOPHIE was working on before she passed (her remixes for other artists, her beloved Heav3n Suspended Livestream, her live material), it’s pretty clear that she was headed towards a more club-centric direction, and I think Charli tried to pick up where she had left off; you can tell that she was guiding voice and a key point of inspiration for this album. Would you like this one?/Maybe just a little bit?

Charli and her collaborators did something really special with this album, and I can see this becoming my favorite project of hers over time. She’s truly in her pop girl bag right now and can’t wait to see what else is in store for the ‘Brat’ era. In the words of SOPHIE, “ Is the floor fucking sticky or something? You ought to start moving your fucking feet!”
Expand review
Review
3.73 from 1,673 ratings
Genres
Indietronica, Indie Rock, Indie Pop
Bitpop, Glitch Pop, Math Pop, Midwest Emo, Noise Pop, Indie Pop
Descriptors
melodic, lush, sentimental, memory, cozy, concept album, progressive, warm, urban, male vocalist, childhood, existential, trains, nostalgia, ageing, introspective, melancholic, bittersweet, longing, uplifting, smooth, romantic, everyday life, playful, mellow, suburban, rhythmic, atmospheric, love, farewell, escapism, maximalist, dense, seasonal, complex, psychedelic, autumn, optimistic, radio, poetic, passionate, ethereal
Todo salió bien en la sencilla Villa Quién (2026)
sueter7
Review by gomkfarmer
the glory of something that is fleeting
This album has some of it all. Explosive crescendoes that follow the warm noise guidelines of prime Broken Social Scene or Arcade Fire, synth driven pop treasure troves with sugary hooks, moments of glitchy or surprisingly progressive compositions, and an overall sound that really captures loss in some grand, formless sense. I imagine this album being best walking through a big city at sunset at the end of summer. There's so much magic and whimsy to the compositions, but all of it feels like it's slowly leaking out, and the grander moments is sueter7's violent protest against the coming cold.

It's bittersweet. Looking back at a life well spent. Telling the same few stories about high school with your friends as you drive around town the week before college starts. It's a tired triumph. It feels like chasing after something you fundamentally can't keep and you have it for a moment and you like it again. It's a new album that feels nostalgic. That's a great quality. The suaveness of the play and instrumentation, the way it flutters between indie genres, they only add to that feeling.

Unfortunately, there is some repetition here, alongside a few songs that just kinda meander. I'm not saying that letting a song have a drawn out breath in an album like this is bad, as it lets you linger in these collapsing worlds, but it can get tired. Plus the buildups and the way they explode is a little rote in the songs where they appear. Escritorio, and Medios de transporte are excellent songs, Mapache feels like the song M83 never could quite write, but tracks like Confluencias, Almohados, and the closer feel like weaker implementations of ideas that the best offerings here nail.

Still, this is an excellent project that captures perhaps my favorite emotion of all- the glory of something that is fleeting.
Expand review
Review
3.60 from 3,342 ratings
Genres
Electropop, Electronic Dance Music
Electro House, Hyperpop, Dance-Pop, Pop Rap, Trap [EDM]
Descriptors
dense, energetic, party, bouncy, buzzy, female vocalist, entertainment industry, boastful, hedonism, punchy, eclectic, fashion, bassy, playful, fame, individuality, rebellious, melodic, noisy, summer, travel, sexual, cars, sassy, love, anthemic, belting, rhythmic, introspective, transgender, money, about music, nocturnal
Detour (2026)
Kim Petras
Review by MarkOfAllTrades
SOPHIE's Sister
Throughout the 2010s, like any decade, there were many changes to the musical zeitgeist in terms of what sounds were created, popularized, and built on. These changes took many different forms across different genres of music, such as trap and emo rap taking the place of pop rap as the most commercially successful subgenre of rap, as well as anthemic, pop tinged arena rock becoming more popular than ever before. But I believe the changes that are most interesting to look back on and the ones that have had the most influence on my personal music taste today are the ones made to pop. Certain varieties of electronic music were becoming more popular, with artists like Skrillex helping to launch dubstep into the mainstream. This lined up well with the continued integration of electronic elements into pop music that started in the late 2000s with albums like Blackout by Britney Spears and The Fame by Lady Gaga. Other mainstream pop artists like them were able to make songs that were more and more mechanical.

One such artist took this concept and used it as the biggest cornerstone of her musical philosophy. This artist was Sophie Xeon, better known as SOPHIE. SOPHIE was a musical revolutionary who inspired an entire generation of incredible artists in electronic and pop music spaces. Of her many proteges, Kim Petras was among the ones who have made the biggest splash in the mainstream. On her first 2 major projects, Clarity and Turn Off The Light, the production Kim sang over and the general songwriting was decently in line with the brand of pop SOPHIE did so much to build upon. Unfortunately on subsequent projects after she signed to a major label, which consisted of two EPs and two albums, Kim worked with disgraced producer giant Łukasz Gottwald, better known as Dr. Luke, and her sound took a hit in quality with their continued collaboration. In addition, it seemed as if her entire public image changed to something less authentic but more palatable. This choice did lead to her achieving significant mainstream success, making history as the first openly transgender woman to net a number 1 single on the Billboard Hot 100, as well as receiving a Grammy for best pop duo/group performance for her collaboration with pop superstar Sam Smith. She even paid a heartfelt tribute to SOPHIE in her acceptance speech. This was unfortunately just a silver lining to a cloudy time in her career.

With all of this context, I was nervous when Kim announced a new album this year, especially since she marketed this project as a “debut album” the same way she did for her previous two albums, both of which I found lackluster compared to her prior standard. I was taken aback when the singles she released for the album were ones I actually ended up enjoying. Despite this, my optimism for the album was still cautious to the point of me even skipping the preview EP she released for the album, “Pretour”. Now that the album has been released and I have more context on its creation, I can safely say Kim Petras is completely back on track with the music she's releasing. Detour is another incredible victory for the innovative brand of electropop SOPHIE helped push forward. Since the release of the seminal Charli XCX album, Brat, I have been hoping this shift would happen in the genre beyond just pipe dreams, and Detour is proving my hopes were well placed. With this album, Kim not only enhances the strengths of her own songwriting that have been at least somewhat present since Turn Off The Lights, but executes them in tandem with production that is practically all at least relatively adjacent to the production philosophy SOPHIE stood for, to such an extent that I kept thinking about her while listening, thanks to the assistance of the electronic duo Frost Children. I am happy to report that due to all of this, Detour is not just a step in the right direction for her, but a marathon.

In the title track that opens the album, Kim doesn’t just deliver a mission statement, she hammers it home. “This is the beginning of the end, Everything before is just pretend.” are the opening lines of the album, delivered quite literally in the first 5 seconds of it. Kim quickly and confidently proclaims to the world that this is a fresh start for her music over buzzy but surprisingly melodic synths that are soothingly stimulating. They cozily wrap around the eardrum like a warm blanket. It’s such an early tell that this leg of her artistic journey is truly going to be different this time. Throughout the song Kim radiates a bright light of divine confidence, claiming she’s going to take you on a journey through who she is and what she stands for. Or as she puts it, “a detour”. The production is dynamic throughout the song’s fairly trim two and a half minute runtime. I love how the synths explode in the chorus and become so blown out they almost sound like noise pop, with Kim increasing her volume to match. The bridge also employs industrial, almost cyberpunk sounding synths that keep the track stimulating even when the energy slows down a little. I also enjoy the implementation of hi-hats throughout the track as they keep the rhythm, but they’re subtle enough to where they don’t remotely distract from the incredible synth-work and vocals. The song manages to be sonically daring enough to be clearly distinct from Kim’s big label work while also being melodic enough to still allow Kim to comfortably continue to ride in her lane of electropop, which lays the groundwork for the album as a whole perfectly.

The experimental production and pop sensibilities of the title track continue to be the primary broader strengths that allow most of the songs across Detour to shine as brightly as they do. That being said, exactly how emphasized each of these strengths end up being depends on the song, as it’s rarely an even amount. There are a handful of tracks that do happen to have interesting production, but shine the brightest in their melodic elements. One example of this would be I LIke Ur Look, which was one of the earlier singles of the album’s rollout. Yes, the track has gorgeous, atmospheric production, but the songwriting is what shines most here. Kim is a bit more soft spoken in her delivery on the verses, as she wistfully flaunts her confidence in regards to a potential partner. The beauty of how gentle Kim is in doing this leads to a magically immersive atmosphere. It has a dreamy feeling similarly to a song like Heaven On Earth by Britney Spears, although the chorus here is definitely louder and more energetic. The juxtaposition between the more euphorically smooth verses and party-ready choruses gives the song a familiar dynamic to much of the electropop of the era it’s drawing from. However, it’s done at a level that stands with the best of what this sound has to offer, and much that is driven not just by the SOPHIE-esque unapologetic maximalism on the production, but also the ability to reign it in slightly to make way for Kim’s gorgeous vocals. This level of precision along with just how beautifully the atmosphere comfortably drifts off until the song is over elevates I Like Ur Look enough for it to be among my favorite songs on the album.

Brutalist is another track with a similar melody-first dynamic and it works quite well. It has that same whimsical, nostalgic feeling that drives I LIke Ur Look, but has a bit more of a narrative. While it isn’t a direct story, it is a meditation on Kim’s experience as a transgender woman who achieved fame as young as she did. According to Cambridge Dictionary, brutalist is defined as “relating to a style of building in which buildings are large and heavy-looking and often made of concrete”. According to an interview with V Magazine, Kim reveals that the song of the same name is a metaphor for how more outspoken transphobes often act as though she is doing to her body what corporations do to brutalist buildings, which she describes in the song as ruining them. The inflections she uses on her vocals throughout the song, and especially in the chorus, almost sound like she’s on the verge of tears. The way the hateful and uninformed make comments akin to comparing the steps she has been taking for her to be her authentic self to creating tacky infrastructure is exhaustingly disheartening for her. She sounds defeated and it almost made me tear up thinking of the fact that the treatment some of my close friends experience can be similar to this. It’s heartbreaking but genuinely beautiful how she’s able to make this connection and use the proficiency of her voice and sense of melody to express how she feels about it. There’s even a point in the third verse and final chorus where she keeps a similar inflection to the beginning of the song, where instead of just saying “they ruined it” in regards to the metaphorical brutalist structures, they also “bulldozed”, “took a knife to” and “took a bomb to” them. Her simple but vivid additions to the song’s overall metaphor support my view that this track is one of Kim’s best written songs. The aforementioned melodic proficiency further emphasizes the raw emotions on display here.

There are a couple of points on the album where the production is even more understated than usual, but the song that I would argue this choice had the most emotional impact on was Basketball. Even if a track like Korea is more outwardly beautiful, with its ethereal production and Kim’s heavenly vocal performance, this track is more emotionally engaging in a symbolic sense. While it is ethereal and beautiful like Korea, the main reason Basketball touches me in particular is because the beat is a repurposed SOPHIE beat. The contrast between the booming bass drums and quietly beautiful synth work would fit right in with SOPHIE’s other material. Kim, through her technically impressive but tranquil breathy delivery, manages to make the song completely her own. The subject matter is a simple comparison between how love is complicated in the same way as the rules of a basketball game, but the way it’s delivered amps up the grandiosity while not really picking up the intensity much until the final chorus. It has the same quiet beauty that much of the rest of the album has, which is a feeling SOPHIE was a master at.

Something else SOPHIE excelled at was manically chaotic production. Kim very much demonstrates she has an ear for that on a good portion of this album, and Frost Children definitely understand the assignment. Polo is a track so mechanical and dense that it ends up being a hyperpop song. The buzzing bass drums throughout the song complement the more understated trap drums and the synths that I can only describe as ‘security laser sounds’. However, the most off the wall element of the production here is the 2 note synth with an almost whistle-like rhythm that aggressively consumes the beginning of the chorus. The song maintains this level of dynamics throughout its fairly short runtime.

I would argue a genuinely mindblowing demonstration of unpredictable, wild, electronic production on Detour that does even more with its runtime than Polo is the song 101. The glitzy, quickly evolving synths that open the song flow seamlessly into a more reserved verse that’s guided by a pounding bass drum and whispered vocals, which then flows just as seamlessly into the explosive synth driven chorus with Kim hypnotically repeating the song title. The vocals in this section are just low enough in the mix for them to be more of an additional production element rather than frustratingly burying the singer in the same manner as many of the vocalists who attempt songs like this. This all happens within less than a minute of music and the whiplash that’s felt across the track is dizzying but so welcome. This amounts to a multi-phased final leg consisting of possibly the loudest moments on the album, which is followed by a quiet vocal buildup that leads into a hypnotic, warbly synth section. This mindblowing hodgepodge of sound is among the most impressive moments in music that reach this astronomical level of intensity I’ve heard this decade. It just happens to be quite catchy in the process.

Despite how Kim manages to keep this impressive balance of accessibility and experimentation throughout most of Detour, there are a couple of songs I was more underwhelmed by. Thankfully neither of them are bad and I truly don’t have that much to critique on either of them. The most notable of these two tracks is called Jeep. Most of my issues with this track lie squarely on the fact that the almost southern tinged folk style Kim chooses to employ here does not suit her. It isn’t unpleasant but it feels out of place. I don’t expect a Kim Petras song to be Kacey Musgraves but the ballad-like vocal delivery on the song is a bit bland and there isn’t anything that sticks out about the instrumental at any point. The softer delivery on the outro is pretty but pales in comparison to other, tonally similar moments on the album. The other underwhelming cut, Check It, fares a bit better in terms of general stimulation but unfortunately not by much. The synths on the chorus are dense and energetic but last for maybe 10 seconds of the song’s runtime. The vocal delivery throughout the song is fairly bland and static, which doesn’t fare well with production that’s comparatively empty when compared to most of the album.

Thankfully I mean it when I say Check It and Jeep are the only moments that come close to being weak, as the album manages not only to end on a high note, but a slam dunk. Freak It is one of those songs that I would not have made a single if it was my album, as not only am I not a fan of the idea of releasing your album closer as a single, but it’s also one of those songs that is best experienced as a surprise due to how unapologetically thrilling it is. After a rapid-fire title drop that starts the song and persists throughout, it quickly becomes apparent that this is the song that takes the aforementioned balance between intense production and melodic songwriting to its apex. I would argue it’s the song where this balance is at its most even, and it strikes it in a very simple, tried and true manner. Most of the more intense production is reserved for the verses and the more catchy vocals are reserved for the chorus. The way the metallic synths bounce off the energetic club-like drums so well is addictive. The soaring chorus feels like the buildup during the beginning of an intense rollercoaster, before the drop back into the verses that’s more akin to the rapid descent and exhilarating loops that follow. What ends up being even more impressive is that after the bass drop on the bridge the final chorus and outro combine these elements in such a natural way. Frost Children kill it here and Kim effortlessly keeps the energy alive in its final moments. I did listen to this song in the lead up to the album but I was blown away by how well it worked in the context of it. It’s one of those album closers that often makes me start another run of the album just so I can get back to it, just like how the best rollercoasters will have you screaming “I want to go again!” Truly a perfectly fitting way to end such an exciting album.

SOHPIE laid out a fairly clear vision for her production philosophy in 2012 during an interview with Bomb Magazine, where she stated that music should resemble the feeling of a “high-thrill three minute ride” akin to “a theme park rollercoaster”. She wanted music to be dynamic and unpredictable, and I believe Kim offers this feeling throughout most of Detour. Kim felt trapped and restricted by her label, and I cannot pinpoint exactly how many of the less proud moments she has had this decade are because of this. It is not an excuse but it does motivate me to think about the situation more critically. Kim is popular but she isn’t borderline invincible in the way a pop icon like Katy Perry is. She has far less power in the industry. I think this album’s promotion and creative decisions help enforce this idea. Kim went from making bogstandard albums that did not feel very passionate to what I believe to be the best project of her career. She truly took SOPHIE’s ear for maximalism and, with the help of Frost Children, combined it with her natural talent for melodic songwriting. Detour is an album that not only manages to add to the growing number of incredible pop albums that have stemmed from the influence of SOPHIE, Charli and all the incredible 2000s pop that they were inspired by, but one that manages to put a unique spin on it that’s specific to Kim’s strengths. I cannot say this for sure, as I didn’t know her personally, but I am of the mind that SOPHIE would be proud if she heard what Kim has accomplished here, and Kim should be proud of herself as well.
Expand review
Review
3.62 from 1,055 ratings
Genres
Mall Screamo
Emo-Pop, Metalcore, Alternative Metal
Descriptors
chaotic, male vocalist, angry, energetic, melodic, dark, noisy, heavy, harsh vocals, concept album, grief, dense, bittersweet, fuzzy, aggressive, maximalist, punchy
Injury Episode (2026)
Static Dress
Review by ElijahJohnson58
I Describe Their Sound As A Welcomed Blast From The Past
What a record. This album is straight up if AFI, The Used, My Chemical Romance, Bring Me The Horizon and an early Mathcore group all got in studio together and pressed on to make a top notch record in that combination. There is not a dud in sight, and ultimately it’s one of the best albums of the year, handedly. This band could open in concert for Dillinger Escape Plan or The Callous Daoboys AND could also open for AFI or My Chemical Romance. I find that to be mighty impressive. The vocals are excellent, the band rips, this is the complete package. I wish it had a stronger closer, but there’s not much else to complain about. This album rocks and you should listen to it if you like any band I’ve listed.
Review
3.73 from 2,450 ratings
Genres
Metalcore, Post-Hardcore
Mathcore, Sludge Metal
Descriptors
heavy, harsh vocals, male vocalist, noisy, aggressive, punchy, angry, introspective, self-hatred, technical, uncommon time signatures, manic, angular, dense, apocalyptic, dark, passionate, complex, energetic, pessimistic, raw, philosophical, poetic, blast beats, rhythmic, death, melancholic, atmospheric, triple metre
Hum of Hurt (2026)
Converge
Review by grnhll
The second 2026 album from legendary metalcore act Converge sounds more interesting than its counterpart, with a darker, slower approach and much more inspired by sludge metal than what I was expecting. Of course, there's a lot of ragers to be found here, specially on the first half, where Converge still displays their relentless intensity as if not a single year had passed since they started playing. I do wish they leaned more into neocrust territory, something akin to the first single, but alas, I'm more than impressed with the whole album.
2000s Album Anniversary
Review
3.76 from 64,962 ratings
Genres
Art Rock, Experimental Rock
Electronic, Jazz-Rock, Art Pop, Ambient Pop
Descriptors
anxious, sombre, atmospheric, melancholic, cryptic, male vocalist, cold, abstract, surreal, mysterious, lonely, dark, nocturnal, apathetic, eclectic, avant-garde, mechanical, complex, progressive, pessimistic, alienation, death, existential, apocalyptic, depressive, dystopian, paranoia, cynical, hazy, longing, mental health, falsetto, memory, desolate, regret
Amnesiac (2001)
Radiohead
Review by Ewano
Built from the Kid A recordings and better, Amnesiac captures Radiohead cutting their losses and considering where next to go
Double up and forget about it appears to be the streamlined impression Radiohead give here. Amnesiac, their follow-up to Kid A, was recorded at the same time and does well to steal the spotlight. Alternative angles, pivoting in new directions. Thom Yorke and the core of Radiohead experiment with heavier compression, the jangled mixtures which come from blooming tones and repressed lyricisms. Anxieties wrap themselves around Amnesiac as Radiohead forgets themselves and their past, experimenting and desperately clawing at something less in-your-face, less focused even. Amnesiac is that, a quieter beast but a snappy, delirious turn which brings attention to the band’s reasonable commands. Get off their case, they can do what they can, no more than that. These may be the leftover parts, the oddball collection to face off against Kid A, but the underdog is sometimes far more intense. Amnesiac wants it more. 

Listeners should want it more too, it is a far stronger record than that of Kid A. Radiohead suffer the effects of memory loss and come up with a new direction for themselves. Losing parts or whole sections to following an already trodden path but getting lost part way through, Pyramid Song and Punk / Pull Revolving Doors settle in as desperately moving and hear a band uncomfortable in their own skin. Even under those whining electronics comes the tenderness and almost frivolous piano-led Pyramid Song, the percussion smooth and almost off the cuff, tenderly following in through clear jazz influences. It can be heard in the timbre, gentle under a cascade of self-demolition from Yorke’s crooner-like experiences. Pieces like this consider Amnesiac for what it is, an album for exhausted souls.  

Amnesiac has something to it that other Radiohead albums do not. Constant buzzes, a noise and continued electronic presence seethe away as though angry at the self for not doing it earlier. I Might Be Wrong, its muffled vocals and its clear focus on Greenwood’s guitar, is a stellar moment. Yorke knows when to pull his lyrics into a clearer place, to think about the good times, and to let the instrumentals work those feelings over. Piercing and effective, his intention is clear and stark. Consistencies of their tone come through on Knives Out, as close as Radiohead get back to their roots of Pablo Honey. More for the streamlined guitar work and the vocals becoming, for once in a blue moon, the focus. But they’re not coming back, as Yorke wistfully, hopefully, puts it. 

Chilling pockets of abandonment are the core of Amnesiac, as though the band are actively trying to forget their past. Just so they can fashion something new for their futures, they need to let go of what they were doing, whether that was their best work or not. It was, and what would follow would never hit the high they find here or on OK Computer. But that is okay, Radiohead pursues new meanings and instrumental intentions the more they push on. Doing so consistently is a chilling, truthful experience which gives listeners an insight into the recording process, but the band are far removed from that time. They are a year on from Kid A and Amnesiac. Reflection of such a cold and flippant style could have been disastrous, but Amnesiac laments with shy defiance this desire to move on.  
Expand review
1990s Album Anniversary
Review
3.76 from 8,265 ratings
Genres
Dream Pop, Indie Pop
Jangle Pop, Ethereal Wave, Ambient Pop, Downtempo
Descriptors
ethereal, female vocalist, melodic, atmospheric, mellow, lush, romantic, sentimental, calm, soothing, peaceful, playful, sensual, poetic, warm, bittersweet, melancholic, longing, psychedelic, autumn, quirky, soft, bright, lyrical dissonance, twinkling, mysterious, progressive
浮躁 [Fúzào] (1996)
王菲 [Faye Wong]
Review by duncanreviews
"Head in the clouds while you follow your dreams"
One of the biggest stars of the music industry to ever come out of Hong Kong, Faye Wong has been a mainstay in Asian pop culture for over thirty years by covering a wide range of demographics that extend from contemporary regional Cantopop all the way to sanctified Cocteau Twins inspirations and collaborations built around Western dream pop trends. And just as the products of her significant acting role and soundtrack credits in one of the all-time great romance films Chungking Express have been secured as an immortal work of art, Faye Wong's diverse solo albums each contribute to the idea of a visual and emotional utopia.

On Fúzào, the multimedia sensation embellishes candied jangle pop with her native Mandarin language with a naturally solaced poise that is counterbalanced by a frolicsome carefree attitude. The broad scope of styles that Faye Wong captures within these thirty-five minutes of laid-back and optimistic creativity proved to be a risk that would not be received well by her fans at the time, but the album has since fulfilled the well-deserved respect that its creator always had for it. Tracks four and eight, co-produced by Cocteau Twins themselves, are particularly bold enterprises that see Wong singing honeyed lullabies in a pearly and reverberant atmosphere. There's even a fair share of tracks devoid of any vocals whatsoever, putting Wong's own composition skills into the limelight.

This record serves as one of the strongest examples that experimentation in pop music in the 90s was not just a relic of the Western hemisphere. It's a gold mine of songs that exhibit both leisure and depth, which can be a rare thing. In fact, Faye Wong's alliance with her biggest influences on this album is what makes it such a universally gratifying bundle of musical euphoria, and the fact that Fúzào has had such lasting impact on both devotees and newcomers to her discography confirms that thinking outside of the box is often the way to go for a pop star who wants to branch out from their standard way of life.

★★★★
Expand review
1990s Album Anniversary
Review
4.15 from 62,291 ratings
Genres
Dream Pop, Shoegaze
Space Rock Revival, Post-Rock
Descriptors
melancholic, ethereal, atmospheric, mellow, romantic, soothing, female vocalist, male vocalist, bittersweet, sentimental, lush, psychedelic, longing, introspective, breakup, love, lethargic, hypnotic, poetic, lonely, melodic, hazy, sad, autumn, dense, warm, bright, nostalgia, regret, drugs, daytime, cannabis, domestic
Souvlaki (1993)
Slowdive
Review by Ginger2882
I will be honest the first time I listened to this album, I didn't really get the appeal. I was working on my final assignment to graduate from college and it just didn't click for me. Whether it be my music taste being unprepared for the album, my focus being too tied to my assignment, or me just not being able to focus on the music, it felt dull to my ears. Before I used RYM consistently I always saw this album primarily referred to as Shoegaze and I really didn't understand why. I always saw them as more Dream Pop than anything, not that it really matters cause genres are arbitrary frameworks that are completely subjective but that was just my take on things. And similar to the most important Dream Pop group, Cocteau Twins, it took me a while to really enjoy their music. For Cocteau Twins, it was finding the right era because I am not a huge fan of their earlier more Ethereal Wave stuff, whereas for Slowdive was just listening to it with a fresh set of ears.

One of the most interesting aspects of this album to me is the insistence of this being labelled Shoegaze. While I understand them coming from that early 90's British Shoegaze scene, I just think they never consistently had the heaviness or instrumental weight that I associate with the genre. I kind of see it like two branching paths of the same basic concept of making music focused on creating atmospheric soundscapes, using washed-out guitars, and featuring obscured vocals. It is like the difference between menemen and shakshuka, both being similar dishes of eggs cooked in tomato sauce but they have minor but clear differences (the main difference between the dishes being menemen is typically scrambled into the sauce whereas shakshuka has whole eggs poached in the sauce for those wondering but there are others). Of course there are moments on here that are definitely more Shoegaze like the start of "40 Days" but that is not the majority to me.

I also think the common comparison of Slowdive to my bloody valentine is interesting because of my aforementioned disagreement with Slowdive being considered definitively Shoegaze, and especially the comparison between their two masterpieces, loveless and this record. loveless is far more disorienting and surrealistic, whereas Souvlaki is more present and melancholic. I love loveless for it's raw but very labored sound that feels like a storm of guitars being blasted into my ears. On the other hand Souvlaki feels like falling into a massive bean bag while stoned. It is like feeling all the nerve endings in your hands and legs buzzing at once. I also feel like they express completely different emotional profiles as loveless is detached, sensual, and hypnotic whereas Souvlaki is much more lonely, longing, and tender. I think it is also important to understand how each of these albums was received. While 1991's loveless got universal critical acclaim, just under two years later Souvlaki was met with a much colder, more critical reception. Many have pointed to this being a systemic issue with British Rock critics being so infatuated with the new trend, Britpop. While that is certainly likely to be a big reason I also think that Souvlaki is an album that requires more deliberate focus to see it's genius. It is much more subdued and requires a more focused ear to get everything out of the record.

This album has multiple songs that are just stunning with my favorites being "Allison", "Machine Gun", "40 Days", "Here She Comes", "Souvlaki Space Station", "When the Sun Hits", and "Dagger" (yeah its alot the album is really good). My favorite of these is "Machine Gun" which features this beautiful looping structure that returns to a couple familiar musical phrases throughout. It is easily one of the most beautiful songs I have ever heard. To me, this album is one of the two definitive examples of what Dream Pop can be with the other being Heaven or Las Vegas. The album just perfectly masters the possibilities of Dream Pop as it creates these narratives drowned in atmosphere, that evoke extremely strong emotions, and stick with you due to their pure intimacy. A perfect album, 10/10.
Expand review
Exploring Shoegaze
Review
3.54 from 5,646 ratings
Genres
Shoegaze
Dream Pop, Baggy, Neo-Psychedelia, Noise Pop
Descriptors
ethereal, atmospheric, male vocalist, lush, psychedelic, dense, noisy, melodic, rhythmic, melancholic, romantic, energetic, hypnotic, bittersweet, introspective, repetitive, surreal, androgynous vocals, love, summer, abstract, breakup, aquatic, poetic, uplifting
Whirlpool (1991)
Chapterhouse
Review by fajara
I raved about this album when it first came out to everybody who would listen. None of them did. So it became my secret. I travelled to go see them play live and they blew me away. To me, this is up there with the best of the era, one of the very finest shoegazer albums of all time.

Imagine my utter joy when they were coaxed out of "retirement" to play it again in November 2009 - 18½ years later. They received such an incredible reception that they were talked into going to Japan to do the same there and then a further sell-out gig in March 2010 before putting their kit away and going back to their day jobs. For me, it was like a dream come true.

*2026 update*

It looked as if another Chapterhouse reunion would never happen, but with the 20th Anniversary of Sonic Cathedral Recordings in 2025 riding the current "shoegaze" tsunami, I spotted 2 members of the band at one of the four events the label held to mark the milestone. One of my friends had talked to Stephen at the pub a few hours earlier and got the distinct impression that talk of a reunion was under-foot.
Fast forward a couple of months, and Sonic Cathedral Recordings release a 12" of the bands White House Demos - the first 4 tracks they ever recorded. During a Q'n'A session at Rough Trade East to celebrate this release, even bigger hints are dropped about possible live dates. I got to speak to 3 of the band and they were very impressed to see me wearing my original Whirlpool T-shirt! It was only a matter of time before a gig was announced, but (and this is a huge but) it is an acoustic gig supporting Evan Dando in Falmouth (which is in the far end of Cornwall - so really inaccessible to pretty much everyone). As it happens, Evan cancels the gig at the last minute and as far as Chapterhouse goes, silence.
A couple of months later, out of the blue, they announce a small tour of the UK and initially, I almost have a heart attack as the dates look like they coincide with us going on holiday to Oz & NZ, but when I look closer, the last day of the tour, which is the London date, is the day after we get back.

Chapterhouse are going to be playing Whirlpool in full to celebrate 35 years since its release. I am beside myself with joy at this news.

I still recommend this album to any younger fans of the swirley fuzzy guitar genre which hopefully will never die. It's a fantastic album that holds it's own from beginning to end. I fucking love it.
Expand review
RIP Sonny Rollins
Review
3.95 from 10,461 ratings
Genres
Hard Bop
Cool Jazz
Descriptors
instrumental, warm, improvisation, acoustic, energetic, melodic, mellow, technical, passionate, happy, urban, nocturnal, sentimental, rhythmic, playful, soothing, smooth
Saxophone Colossus (1957)
Sonny Rollins
Review by siLLy_puPPy
To clarify the confusion of this album that seems to have different info with every source i encounter, it was recorded on 22 June 1956 and released in April 1957 and the excellent Rudy Van Gelder remaster finding its way onto the market in 2005. SAXOPHONE COLOSSUS is without a doubt the most revered album released by SONNY ROLLINS with the leading track “St. Thomas” being one of the most celebrated jazz standards of not only the 50s hard bop scene but of all jazz history. Although the track was a traditional calypso number, SONNY literally jazzed it up to make a classic of the ages.

This album finds many a jazz veteran lending a hand and an ear to the process. SONNY ROLLINS, of course, is the star here with his masterful melodic tenor saxophone, but we also get Tommy Flanagan on piano, Doug Watkins on bass and the inimitable Max Roach handling drum duties. By definition, hard bop incorporates everything from R&B and gospel music to the blues and beyond and this album is a great example of these mixings and commingling of styles.

The saxophone and piano are obvious contenders here but the beauty of this album is how well every musician on board weaves his magic around the cohesive whole. While jazz ballads can be a point of contention in my world, i must admit that “You Don’t Know What Love Is” comes across as a tender yet intricately beautiful piece of work that straddles the pop world’s sensibilities while keeping the jazzy touches as the dominant feature.

This is music well before my time but it has a sense of timelessness to it. I was particularly surprised to hear “Moritat” which is a jazz interpretation of a song composed by Kurt Weil originally titled “Mack The Knife” or in German “Die Moritat von Mackie Messer” which was in The Threepenny Opera which originated at the Theater am Schiffbauerdamm in Berlin in 1928. While the original had lyrics and was a product of its time SONNY deftly tackles the vocal parts on his sizzling sax and retains the spirit of the original without sacrificing the hard bop sensibilities of the time of release.

“Blue” which is a ROLLINS written original is another satisfying track. It delivers all the beauty of a blues standard with all the jazz touches as the icing on the cake. Somehow these four guys keep the whole thing sounding like a blues song even when they break into clear jazz territory of syncopated drum solos and the like. Very impressive.

This was a grower indeed. While feeling underwhelmed upon first encounter i have really grown to like SAXOPHONE COLOSSUS a lot and understand the hype behind its majesty. While not fluent in ROLLINS’ massive discography, i as an abecedarian of his music, can gleefully advocate recommending this album as the perfect introduction into his hard bop and beyond universe. While it’s true that in the 50s jazz appears a little incestuous with every musician at one time playing on someone else’s albums just like marriages in a TV soap opera, on this particular occasion the stars aligned for all involved and a veritable masterpiece was born.
Expand review
See more featured items...
ADVERTISEMENT
Features
View all features
New releases
All New Releases
My New Releases
Average
Rated
Wants
Inferno
Boards of Canada
29 May 2026
Downtempo, Hauntology
3.91
12,066
1341
Status Update Music
leroy
14 May 2026
Dariacore, Hard Dance
3.79
4,119
613
Redstar Wu & the Worldwide Scourge
Genesis Owusu
15 May 2026
Post-Punk Revival, Political Hip Hop, Neo-Soul
3.74
3,708
568
Todo salió bien en la sencilla Villa Quién
sueter7
27 May 2026
Indietronica, Indie Rock, Indie Pop
3.73
1,673
579
Det hjemsøkte hjertet
Panopticon
8 May 2026
Atmospheric Black Metal, Post-Metal
3.83
1,859
464
Hum of Hurt
Converge
5 June 2026
Metalcore, Post-Hardcore
3.73
2,448
485
Experimental Rap
JPEGMAFIA
21 May 2026
Hardcore Hip Hop, Experimental Hip Hop
2.59
7,587
340
Sulfur Surfer
Bladee
20 May 2026
Cloud Rap, Experimental Hip Hop
3.42
4,804
357
Play Monk
أحمد [Ahmed]
8 May 2026
Avant-Garde Jazz, Free Jazz
3.69
836
475
Detour
Kim Petras
29 May 2026
Electropop, Electronic Dance Music
3.60
3,340
370
See more new music...
Sonemic

Sonemic is the name of an update to Rate Your Music which is currently under development. It's an upgrade to RYM which greatly improves and modernizes the existing features of RYM. The Sonemic charts, genre pages, message boards, and new music page are already part of RYM today.

Glitchwave, our video game site, is currently in Beta 4, accessible to all users at glitchwave.com

We have recently announced a new development strategy: We are bringing all of the already-developed Sonemic and Cinemos features into RYM, one at a time, and have opened Glitchwave to everyone.

You can read more on the Development status page.

Development status
ADVERTISEMENT
RATE YOUR MUSIC
© 2000-2026 Sonemic, Inc.
    
RYM NETWORK
RYM
music
Sonemic
roadmap
Glitchwave
video games (beta)
Discussion
rym.fm
INFO
FAQ
Development status
RYMzilla
Submissions
Data access / API
POLICY
Database standards
Privacy
(Updated: 29 Sep 2025)
Terms of service
CONTACT US
Support / Feedback
 