You best believe that up in heaven there's an angel
Armed with a arrow and a golden cupids bow
Who has a rash demeanor that is quite the handful
Carries a jealousy that only seems to grow!

I wonder who's walking around with fertilizer
And amplifying all the tension in her head?
She'll wander far and wide from the Garden of Eden
To the tenebrous festered corners of your bed!
(Gasp)

Lately I've been watching her from somewhere
Where I know I can't be seen
She pierced a wandering stranger, now he has such a fatal disease
Of giving several kisses, most of them were just below the knees
I fear he has a fetish, giving calves a squeeze!

I told her, "Very well, I wager he's a ruffian
With a countenance so drawn!"
You couldn't pay me in the flesh to tread the ground
He's treading on!
At least I thought that's what I said but l looked up and she was
(She was)
Gone!

One fleeting look and I have caught his poor attention
(Ugh)
I found a tumbleweed, he found someone to blame hmmmm
(Go away!)
It's in effect the warning the past aforementioned
(Huh?)
"Oh honey, what do you expect? It's in your name!"
(Ah!)

Well now I'm stumbling along with heavy ankles
(hemlocke springs)
I want to kick him off, but I don't think I can
(hemlocke springs)
(Get the fuck off, what the hell?!)
With all the choler and vexation that he rankled
You'd think I'd find the strength to chop his little man!
(Chop Chop Chop!)

Frequently her golden silhouette will linger right before my eye
Will see an arrow strike my chest and cause my heart to beat awry
I paid a pretty penny to procure the pirates of Perai
And sail a ship that leads me to the tears I cry!

I told her, "Very well, I wager you're the villain
Treating humans like a pawn!"
"If war is what you want, then war will be the
Book that I will con!"
At least I thought that's what I said but I looked up and she was
(And she was gone)

(Fuck I don't okay)
(Clears throat)
So stay with me forever
Make this dream a heaven sent
The more I see, the better
Hell, we can break his arms together!

Pick up the glory that you tabled to
Help me enjoy my little rendezvous of age